(18/07/2013) 
* Blocks declaration are now inlined in schemas
* Blocks are typed as they appear in schemas, and stored as typed term.
* We now use fresh_hyp_name to name the hypothesis in the proofs generated by tacticals, to ensure that the hypothesis context doesn't affect the generated proof.

(10/07/2013) bis
* todo: cleanup of Schema, patternMatch on type terms with properly tagged variables.
* idea: Could accept more than one hypothesis in projas, getting constraints for more than one schema for projection variables used in many hypothesis.
* idea: I don't think we ever need to keep the names of the block, we could just inline everything as typed term in schemas.
* For tacticals, should fail gracefully if fail while generating the statement/proof, and fail with a message to report bug if fail during processing (i.e. all the statement and proof we generate should be correct).
(10/07/2013) meeting with Kaustuv


TODO
 0) parse projas as a diff clause in apply. (DONE)
 1) use typed terms in internal
 2) rewrite deBruijn (KC)
 2.5) constructs/find example for proj (TODO before the demo of the 17th)
 3) acave's pts (Ugh, couple of compound blocks)
 

(09/07/2013) bis
* Implemented a first version of proj making the statement and the proof directly from the receives assumption and string. 
 TODO: 
   1) verify that the statement is actually possible
   2) Generalize the statement when variables in schGs appears more than once: 
     -) e.g. if ctx' G1 G1 -> ctx G1, changes to ctx' G1 G2 -> ctx (G1|G2), and then keep the most restrictive of G1 and G2 on ctx. 
     * that doesn't work if both G1 and G2 restricts the pattern.
     a) keep the statement as is, unify all the origin patterns, see if they match the destination pattern, and do that for every projection of the destination schema.

(09/07/2013)
* idea: proj could be made w/o modifying parser. tactical would be something like "apply projas_ctxNameD_D1_G1" hyp1, where hyp is, e.g. , ctxName G1 G2. The statement would then look like
  "\forall G1 G2, ctxName G1 G2 -> (exists D1, ctxNameD D1 G1)"
 
 proj would work both as proj and inj, as you could do
  "projas_ctxName'_G1_G2" hyp1 where hyp1 = ctxName G1 to get
  "\forall G1, ctxName G1 -> (exists G2, ctxName' G1 G2)"
  and
  "projas_ctxName_G1" hyp1 where hyp1 = ctxName' G1 G2 to get
  "\forall G1 G2, ctxName' G1 G2 -> ctxName G1"
* added "fresh/name" lemmas to the conclusion of sync.
* naming of lemma fixed 
 # uni name is now: "Huni"^ctxName^hash, where  gi is index of the projection at which the proof is done and hash is the ground variable of the first matched block, followed, in order, 1 for each matched blocks and 0 for the others.
 # sync name is now: "Hsync"^ctxName^gi^hash, where gi is the projection of the schema at which the proof is done, and hash is a bitmap of matching blocks.
 # inv name is now: "Hinv"^ctxName^gi where gi is the projection of the schema at which the proof is done.


(08/07/2013) bis 
* TODO: name the generated inv, sync lemma in function of the matched clauses, s.t. we can reuse them.
* future proj and inj
PROJ
---------------------------
pro.1 > receives str = ctxNameD Gi1 ... Gim (for some i1 ... im between 1 and n)
                 hyp1 = ctxName G1 ... Gn
        for some defined schema ctxName and ctxNameD
pro.2 > verify if a block mapping the same projections in ctxName to the same proj in ctxNameD was already proven
pro.3 > verify that, for each clause C of ctxName, (Gi1, ..., Gim) in C matches a clause in ctxNameD. 
     
proj.4 > make statement and proof that \forall G1 ... Gn,ctxName G1 ... Gn -> ctxNameD Gi1 ... Gim


INJ
---------------------------
inj.1 > receives str = ctxNameD D1 ... Dm
                 hyp1 = ctxName G1 ... Gn (some of which might be equal to some Di)
inj.2 > verify that for each clause in schema ctxName, there exists a clause in ctxNameD which matches (is more general) for each of Di1 ... Dip for which Dij = Gk \in G1 ... Gn
inj.3 > make statement and proof that \forall G1 ... Gn. \exists ([D1 ... Dm] - [Di1 ... Dip]). ctxName G1 ... Gn -> ctxnameD D1 ... Dm




(08/07/2013)
* Idea: Make a single point of entry to extensions to Abella, which would then dispatch to extension such as schema, s.t. it's possible to delete schema.ml 
? How to handle the parsing extension (o.w. could just have a marker for ext-abella, and dispatch it as string to the extension )

INVERSIONTIEM
-------------------------
inv.1 > receives hyp1 = ctxName G1 ... Gn
                 hyp2 = member E Gi
        for defined ctxName and a variable E
inv.2 > See if a proof of inv was already done for that schema, for the same projection of the schema. If it is the case, return that schema name, otherwise continue.
inv.3 >  make inv statement & proof corresponding to the schema ctxName, for an element E at the ith projection

SYNCTIEM
-------------------------
syn.1 > receives hyp1 = ctxName G1 ... Gn
                 hyp2 = member E[X1,...Xm] Gi
        for defined ctxName and some E:o
syn.2 > see which blocks, from the ith projection of ctxName, could match E
syn.3 > See if a proof of sync was already done for that schema, for a statement matching the same clauses. If it is the case, return that schema name, otherwise continue.
syn.4 > unify all the matched blocks as T
(syn.4'> use E directly as T )
syn.5 > make sync statement & proof, asserting equality for each variables shared by the ith projection and the rest of the clause.

(06/07/2013) 
> moved all new functions to module Schema. lexer, parser, abella_types and abella are also modified by the extension to handle block,schema and tacticals.
> Added a switch in Schema that tell if a schema was ever created by the extension, in which case the tacticals becomes active, otherwise don't catch their hypname on apply (so that we are fully backward compatible).
* proof for sync fails when nominal variables are in the assumption, I might need to replace nominal vars by logical variables (in both uni and sync?)

(05/07/2013) 
* cleaned unique, which now does uni.1 to uni.5, and then an alternative uni.8 which makes the statement using the unified terms (from the hypothesis). 
> Started rewriting the first part of breduce, fails at an apply sync ("Not_found"), rest works. Start next week cleaning up sync and see what cause the failure, in order to remove ctx2_uniform from breduce.
	      
(04/07/2013) bis^2 Workingon uni.7. switcharoo in uni.7's rename_ids_in_uterm might be unsafe.
(04/07/2013) bis UNIQUETIEM
-----------------------------
uni.1 > receives hyp1 = ctxName G1 ... Gn
           hyp2 = member (E1[A1,...,Am]) Gi
	   hyp3 = member (E2[B1,...,Bp]) Gi
	for defined schema ctxName
uni.2 > see & get which variables are equal and in the same position in E1 and E2.
uni.3 > unify E1 and E2 as E
uni.4 > see which clauses of ctxName's ith projection matches E
uni.5 > find, from the equal variables, a variable N which is nabla bound in every clauses matched by E. 
uni.6 > See if a proof of unique was already done for that schema, ground on the same variables, for a statement matching the same clauses. If it is the case, return that schema name, otherwise continue uni.
uni.7 > unify all the matched pattern as pE
( uni.7' > use E as pE directly  )
uni.8 > making unique statement&proof corresponding to N for pE



(04/07/2013) 
* Doing some test to fix unique, will probably modify the generation so that we unify all matched patterns before generating the statement, as described before. 
> fvInTm is just select_var_refs with f = \x.true, should use it(and List.unique) in patternMatch.
> rem_rep is List.unique
* TODO: move all new code in a different module


(03/07/2013) Meeting with Kaustuv
TODO
1) unique
2) rewrite bred
3) term redev
4) proj&inj


NEXT MEETING
10/07 regular meeting
12/07 code walk
17/07 meetup with dale


REPORT
by the end of the summer - 1 or 2 pages (computer science generalist) summary of research
later this year - paragraph for RAPT report 

(03/07/2013)
* working on breduce.thm now, to test quantifiers in contexts.
 > inversion works
 > sync works
 > unique need some work, pairwiseEqual assumed a constant followed by vars
? I always use prune ctxvars, might need to deal with nominal deps.
(02/07/2013)
* TODO: revisit how to type the block head, maybe storing term instead of uterm. 
  > Deprecated get_ty_from_tml, using type_vars_in which take a term, its expected type, the ctx signature and a list of locally bound variables, and returns a list of free variables appearing in the term together with their type. 
> Block and schema definition with quantifier now works, will test the tacticals tomorrow.


(01/07/2013)
> Sync works -> proof is quite like unique, if not matched, can skip the head case, o.w. apply I.H. and search.
* TODO: find a way to type and add the new variables from patternMatch in the list of "fresh" variables in make_sync_stmt.
* TODO: Should use Right.unify instead of uniteTerms for sync&unique, on the matched patterns, to make the most general terms matching all the pattern matched by the hypothesis.
* TODO: handle general term in "Block", maybe type them right away and store term instead of uterm.
(26/06/2013) 
* For sync & uniq, if not cases ... , return false. (think about discrim )
* think about getting induction principles from type from sig in abella ($tm &c) (read bpientka's coverage paper)
? Seems like all the tacticals are following the pattern of 1) observing the hypothesis given 2) selecting the statement from a finite set of statement that could've been generated at the schema definition. 
?? See if unique can be expressed as such, using a unified pattern from all matching patterns instead of a unified pattern of the two hypotehesis
 


(25/06/2013) bis
 Unique is done, but there's a bit of a circularity between "safe_uni_ground" and "instOfPats". At the moment "safe_uni_ground" might say "false" for a position even if the assumption couldn't be introduiced by the block, however "n" is needed for makeUniqueTerms with his used in instOfPats...Will have to untangle this at some point - make instOfPat [pattern matching] primitive.

Now onto sync; e.g. 
schema ctx := exists B, nabla n m, (ofb (B;n),ofi, ofb (B;m));
              exists B C,          ( ofb' (B,C;), ofi, ofi);

ctx G1 G2 G3 -> member (of X B) G1 -> exists M, member i G2 /\ member (of M B) G3
ctx G1 G2 G3 -> member i G2 -> (exists X M B, member (of X B) G1 /\ member (of M B) G3) \/
                              member i G1 /\ member i G3
ctx G1 G2 G3 -> member (of X B) G3 -> exists N, member (of M B) G1 /\ member i G2

1) member_of_ith 
2) inst_of_path to see which clauses could've matched the hyp
3) construct the disjunction of the clauses that could've matched, each of a conjunction of the other member (need to deal with which variable to rename/quantify over here)
4) proof looks like unique

(25/06/2013)
 Inversion is done, might want to add typing information in the binding lists of schemas.
  - ask kaustuv why the case H5inv search search instead of search directly on ctx'.
 > Updated unit with multiple tests on inversion
 > Will now look into sync (very similar to inversion) and unique(same proof as before, just need)


(24/06/2013) Schema generation done, start 25th with make_in_stmt, may inline ground_inv_at after
 to ignore the other fields) [25/06 note: Wontfix. ground_in_at renamed member_of_ith, used in uni as well]

(20/06/2013) Meeting with Kaustuv:

- We found out compounding schema as was planned in the previous notes is not directly possible, as we want blocks to be able to share variables, and at the moment quantifiers appears at the level of blocks. We plan on modifying the block/schema syntax as such:
====================================================================
 Block c1(X1,...,Xp ; n1,...,nq) = ∃ X1 ... Xp ∇ n1 ... nq . [...]
 Block c2(X ; n,m) = ∃ X ∇ n m . [...]

 Schema C = ∃ Y1 ...  Yp, ∇ n, c1 (Y1,...,Yp ; n);
            ∃ Y,  ∇ n m,       c2 (Y; m , n).

 Schema CC = ∃ Y,  ∇ n m,    ( c2(Y; n,m) , c2 (Y; m , n))
====================================================================
Important: need to check, when using a block in the schema, that nabla bound variables in the blocks are bound separately at the schema level (e.g. can't do c2(Y;m,m))




(19/06/2013) 
Design of schema relations (n-ary schema definition)
Schemas as , for some number n, list of [tuples of length n] of block names
   Schema A = (a_1,...,z_1);...;(a_m,...,z_m).
Defining the context
  Define A: olist -> ... -> olist -> prop by
   A nil;
   ctx ([a_1]::L^1) ... ([z_1]::L^n):= ctx L^1 /\ ... /\ ctx L^n;
                      ...
 ctx ([a_m]::L^1) ... ([z_m]::L^n):= ctx L^1 /\ ... /\ ctx L^n;
The following lemma can then be generated:

1) Inversion (membership)
 -> add some sync info (i.e. not only refine E from member E G, but show member form from D)

2) Uniqueness 


3) Sync(uniform) lemma, if A \G ... \D and member ([a_1]) \G then member [z_1] \D
   (or [z_m] for every clause m which could be matched by [a_1])

   
   sync (ctxgd \G \D) (member E \G) ->  member E' \D
 




4) Projections lemmas from A to any context including, at least, for some e, e_1;...;e_m
   proj 1 "ctxg" (ctxgd \G \D) -> ctxg \G
   proj 2 "ctxd" (ctxgd \G \D) -> ctxd \D
   proj (2,1) "ctxdg" (ctxgd \G \D) -> (ctxdg \D \G)

5) Injection lemmas,

   inj 1 (ctxg \G) -> \exists D. (ctxgd \G \D)


(18/06/2013 bis)
Meeting with Kaustuv

1) path examples
2) schema relations
   A = b_1|b_2|b_3
   B = c_1 | c_2
   R (A~B)? = (b_1,c_1) | (b_2,c_1)| (b_3,c_2)
 bring projection R \Gamma \Delta -> A \Gamma


(18/06/2013)
Description of the different procedures

Block  |
--------
> Check that the name of the block is not in use
> (Check that the head of the block is a declared constant)
> Get the type of the head constant, and use it to type the list of variables
> Check that the whole block is of type "o"
> Save the list of exists bound variables, the list of nabla bound variables and the body of the block as a utm in "Prover.blocks" associated with the block name
> Make generic lemmas:
  - if no exists bound variable
    o for each type of nabla bound variable 'a, define "'a_name" as "nabla n, 'a_name n."
    o for each pair of nabla bound variable 'a and exists bound 'b, define "fresh_'a_in_'b" as "\nabla n, fresh_'a_in'b n X."
  -
> Process recursively generic lemmas, supressing the output.

Schema |
--------
> Check that the name of schema isn't already used in a definition
>* Check that the blocks were previously defined
> Add the schema name and the list of block names in "Prover.schemas"
> Build and process the context definition from the blocks

Inversion |
-----------
Receives something of form "ctx L" and "member E L", and outputs the form of E
> Get the schema name as the head of hyp1
> check that inversion for that schema wasn't already define, o.w. use the prefious definition
> make and process the inversion statement and the inversion proof from the list of blocks (more details to come)

Unique |
--------
Receives something of form "ctx L" "member E1[X_1..X_n] L" "member E2[X_1..X_n] L"
> Get the schema name as the head of hyp1
> check that inversion for that schema wasn't already define, o.w. use the prefious definition
> observe E1 and E2 from hyp2 and hyp3
 - Create E which matches both E1 and E2
 - Create a bitmap of which block from schema matches E
 - See if, for the variables [X_1,..,X_n] equal and at the same position in E1 and E2, one of them is nabla bound on every blocks which matches E. That variable "grounds" the uniqueness lemma
 - Generate the uniqueness lemma and proof ground at that variables (more details to come)
> process the uniqueness statement and proof

(06/06/2013)
-I need to change the "canonical" term I use to make uni statement. At the moment I used a matching block, but this could be too general for what I'm trying to prove. I need to make a term using the two hypothesis, e.g. "of X A" and "of X (foo B)" would result in "of X (foo A1)" and use this instead of the canonical block


(31/05/2013)

TODO:
0) update structure to handle 1+ nabla and 1+ exists 
    - DONE for parser, Block in abella, generation of generic lemmas/def, still store only the head of nabla/exists.
1) support 1+ nabla variables.
  - generate 1 prune, fresh for each pairs (nabla, exists), if no exists, generate name instead.
  - for uniqueness, verify which variables are the same, then verify if one of them is nabla bound, if so, generate uniqueness centred around that one, resulting in the other variables being equal.
===============================================================

(28/05/2013)
Started looking at proof generation. 

Inversion is easy, each block is the same no matter what the other blocks are

Uniqueness has a number of cases of the case H1 dependent on the number of blocks. 
If the term added by the block is the one being compared, then it can be either front or part of the rest,so it looks something like
   case H2
      -h case H3. 
      	        -h search.
		-t prune
      -t case H3.
       	       -h prune 
	       -t IH 

 o.w. it's part of the tail and we just use I.H.
    case H2. case H3. IH

Note for uniqueness: nabla bound variable has to appear in the term if we want this propertie to hold. e.g. block uhoh: exists P. nabla x. path P P won't have a uniqueness lemma.

===========================================================
QUESTION:
Best way to add defn,theorem,proof?
    - reimplement the theorem portion of process
    - push parsed syntax to input
    - as a new tempfile on input_file, pre-lex.

IDEA:
Generic naming of schema by the blocks
Tactic to generate projections of a schema towards another.
  break ctx_oftmpath 2 3 as ctx_tmpath


ADDED SO FAR:
Lexer, Parser, Pretty-Printer for block with 1 exists, 1 nabla, 1 field.
Lexer, Parser, PP for schema with a list of simple block.
Function add_block, get_block in prover.ml to accumulate blocks at defn and get them at schema declaration.


WIP:
working on processing of block in abella.ml

TODO:
working on processing of block in schema.ml

DESC:
Definition should only be carried out at Schema, 
Block should 
-) Get the pred's signature to type id1, id2 (lookup_const sign "of")
-) create the prune theorem if not already done for the type of the nabla bound variable(id2)
-) store the raw block with add_block
(* pseudo: 1) find the var in tt which is nabla bound
           2) match it with its type from pty
	   3) generate pruning lemma theorem for that type
	   3) update nabla, exists bounds with typing information *)


Schema should
-) Create the context definition, one constructor for each of its block plus the nil one
-) Spawm and prove the various theorems about regular contexts.



Meeting:
-Btw, if not Ty([], A) for nabla then throw error
-For prune...

-Once we have dat lemma in (add_schema_lemma), when get to 
apply hyp_name to...
add "schema_lemma" to hypname













